Hello! Thanks for checking out my project!

This project was created for the Nebraska SLC event Coding and Programming. 
Throughout the project, there is some documentation, but most of the explanation is done in this document. 

To get started, this project is built in Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, Sinatra/ActiveRecord, and SQL. 
The .c9 folder is a complete copy of all of the changes I have made throughout the project. Files are automatically updated there and are only useful for backtracking work.
The SLCebooks folder is where the final project is located. Files that have been removed are no longer in that folder, and files that are necessary for the code to run have been left alone. 
Most of the folders in SLCebooks were autogenerated by Rails, so if they are empty, that is because I did not need the particular function that the folder was built for.

Under the folder SLCebooks >> db >> migrate, all of the migration files are recorded. These are the files that were used to create the database. Under SLCebooks >> db, the schema.rb file provides a full look at what the database tables look like.
Under the folder SLCebooks >> models, there are files that describe the relationships between columns in the database. Books (titled Livres, the french word for books, as the word "book" has been reserved by Rails for a particular function) and Students are connected through Bookids. These Bookids each have a unique id that becomes the access code for students to click on to gain access to the book_link, or the provided URL for the ebook.

The views folder (SLCebooks >> views) contains the most important files for this project. These files are what creates the pages for the website. 
Inside the main file folder SLCebooks, you can find routes.rb (the file that tells the website where to go when a specific link is called). In this file, certain variables are called with "@" in front of them. This makes them available in other files, which allows for these files to access the database outside of their own page. The routes.rb file is one of the major connecting pieces between the database information and the pages that present this information.
Other files in the Views folder are called in routes.rb, and are then presented to the user. Each file is named closely to what it does, so that finding things throughout the code becomes much less difficult.

Under the SLCebooks folder (along with the routes.rb file), one can find the app.rb file (which requires specific gems and routesfor the site as a whole), the Gemfile and Gemfile.lock (which document all of the gems downloaded into the project), and the Rakefile (which tells the terminal what commands to accept and decline, and what actions the user can have it perform).

To run the file from the Cloud9 terminal, simply add the following commands:

    cd SLCebooks
    sudo service postgresql start
    bundle install
    rake serve
    
To access the Cloud9 editor, follow this link:

    https://ide.c9.io/emj1214/coding_omahamarian_johnson_2018

Thank you so much again for looking at my project! 